[SEGMENT 1]
You guys go to the gym I go to the gym But you already knew that but I don't think I'll ever be as buff as this can go rip Oh my go Alien Holy shit like he is jacked like he's even stacking do you even lift bro? Yes, I'm intimidated I feel like he's about to kick my ass like like yo bro I'll rip your head off and stuff it in my pouch like a trophy motherfucker now the version you guys sent me only has 12,000 views so unless there's another copy out there I think And I don't blame the cameraman for laughing his ass off me. How do you even get this buff? Yeah, I've been bitch pressing koala bears all day. You know what typically plants and berries but no trans fat You know you spobby you know it even seems like he's looking for an excuse to flex like you should check out the other exhibits over there So this next video is great.

[SEGMENT 2]
It's really squirrel. So this is someone's pet squirrel try to bury a nut in a dog's fur Oh I have nothing to say about this other than it parking And like it is cute, but he makes a serious attempt to cover up that nut No one will think to look here So I found this over on a blog every time it's called I-09 That's four million views now So it's blown up and why do they have a pet squirrel and like why is that dog murdering that squirrel look I'm not saying the dog should murder the squirrel. It's just alright I have four cats and when they see a squirrel they're like Whoa And if you look at the dog the dog just couldn't be more apathetic I mean he just doesn't care he's like you know those folks I have to give I buried them in the backyard If you're curious how the video ends it looks like squirrel ends up hiding his nuts in the laundry basket Now high-speed chases will never not be exciting. This is the first time I've ever seen one where the cop was actually wearing a This is actually not a traditional coffee is apparently part of the Arkansas game and fish commission So if you're thinking about fishing without a permit He fuck you know the video gets unfortunately funny when the officer catches the suspect who appears to be a total metham This whole scene apparently went down back in August of 2012 and it's just now blowing up Either that or it's an elaborate commercial for Google Glass See to me this is like the real life breaking bad people fantasize about living this breaking bad life But in reality that's what the real Jesse Pinkman would look now There's a lot of content about how the officer handled the arrest after the suspect got out of car But you know if you're on that drug on the wrong side of the highway and dangering lives I'd say getting cursed at with a gun stuck to your neck You know I gotta feel bad for the guy, but it's like that with 80% of the videos that you send me It's like I feel bad for the person but at the same time. I'm like Dude, what are you thinking?

[SEGMENT 3]
See now this guy. He's busted. He's gonna go to jail This will probably be a sellmate. Do you even fuck pro? And you know what else after seeing this video I'm seriously having second thoughts about ever doing that, but that's all my time guys I'll see you later in the week.

[SEGMENT 4]
Don't forget to share out the full videos links are down below in the description I'm Rayway Johnson and I approve this message Yeah, I've been bitch pressing koala bears all day. You know what typically plants and berries but no trans fats You know can you spot me can you give me a spot spot? Can you give a spot? Can you spot over there? Spot spot you spot me the spot you spot here.

[SEGMENT 5]
No spot you spot is spot on my wall dog him spot Somebody now know how to flush the toilet after they've had a Yeah Oh, it's you hey

